readme.asciidoc, before:

== MongoDB Metrics Storage Engine ==

This project provides a storage engine based on MongoDB for timeseries event data stream. Metrics (min, max, avg, sum) are calculated periodically and stored separately from the event data stream.

=== Requirements: ===
* Apache Maven version 3
* Spring Data MongoDB 1.4.0.M1
* MongoDB 2.0.7 or later

=== Building: ===
image::https://travis-ci.org/aparnachaudhary/mongodb-metrics-store.png?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/aparnachaudhary/mongodb-metrics-store"]

image::https://coveralls.io/repos/aparnachaudhary/mongodb-metrics-store/badge.png?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://coveralls.io/r/aparnachaudhary/mongodb-metrics-store?branch=master"]
To build, issue this from the command line:
[source]
----
mvn clean install
----

=== How it works: ===

==== Gauge Event ====

Event data stream is represented as +GaugeEvent+. Event can be represented in the form of following JSON structure. Gauge event has a +value+ field stored as +double+ and optionally context data can be stored in the form of map construct. Events are stored in their separate collections.
e.g. for event with name 'request'; a collection with name +request.event+ is created in the +eventstore+ database.

Events can be stored using the REST interface.

[source, js]
----
curl -i -X PUT http://localhost:8080/rest/event/ -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d 
'{"occuredOn":"2013-12-28T14:19:56Z","eventType":"request","value":11.0,"contextData":{"hostname":"localhost"}}'
----

JSON Structure of stored Gauge Event:

[source, js]
----
{
    "_id" : ObjectId("52bede0cc2e6f68c4ad8b7a6"),
    "_class" : "net.arunoday.metric.store.model.GaugeEvent",
    "occuredOn" : ISODate("2013-12-28T14:19:56Z"),
    "eventType" : "request",
    "value" : 11,
    "contextData" : {
        "hostname" : "localhost"
    }
}
----

==== Gauge Metric ====

Metrics (+min+, +max+, +mean+, +sum+) are calculated based on the event input. Metrics are calculated using hierarchial aggregations. 

Following aggregations are supported:

* Minute-wise
* Hourly
* Daily
* Monthly
* Yearly

For each event type; aggregation results are stored in separate collections in +metricstore+ database. e.g. +request.minute+ +request.hourly+ +request.daily+ +request.monthly+ and +request.yearly+
For generating minute wise aggregations, event data is used. But for hourly aggregations, instead of using event data stream; minute wise aggregations are used. Same approach is used for further aggregations of higher granularity.


image::HierarchialAggregation.jpg[]

JSON Structure Gauge Metric:

[source, js]
----
{
    "_id" : ISODate("2013-12-28T13:56:00Z"),
    "value" : {
        "total" : 7170,
        "count" : 12,
        "min" : 0,
        "max" : 603,
        "mean" : 597.5,
        "ts" : ISODate("2013-12-28T13:57:00Z")
    }
}
----

==== REST Support ====

Following REST operations are supported.

.Table Gauge Event REST Resources
[cols="2*", options="header"]
|===
|Resource| Description

|PUT /event/
|Stores gauge events and returns the event identifier.

|DELETE /event/+eventName+
|Deletes all events for the given event name.

|===


.Table Gauge Metric REST Resources
[cols="2*", options="header"]
|===
|Resource| Description

|GET /metric/minute/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+/+hour+/+minute+
|Returns a single minute wise metric aggregation for the given minute.

|GET /metric/minute/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+/+hour+
|Returns a collection of minute wise metric aggregations for the given hour.

|GET /metric/minute/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+
|Returns a collection of minute wise metric aggregations for the given date.

|GET /metric/minute/+eventId+/+year+/+month+
|Returns a collection of minute wise metric aggregations for the given month.

|GET /metric/hourly/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+/+hour+
|Returns a single hourly metric aggregation for the given hour.

|GET /metric/hourly/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+
|Returns a collection of hourly metric aggregations for the given date.

|GET /metric/hourly/+eventId+/+year+/+month+
|Returns a collection of hourly metric aggregations for the given month.

|GET /metric/daily/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+
|Returns a single daily metric aggregation for the given date.

|GET /metric/daily/+eventId+/+year+/+month+
|Returns a collection of daily metric aggregations for the given month.

|GET /metric/daily/+eventId+/+year+
|Returns a collection of daily metric aggregations for the given year.

|GET /metric/monthly/+eventId+/+year+/+month+
|Returns a single monthly metric aggregation for the given month.

|GET /metric/monthly/+eventId+/+year+
|Returns a collection of monthly metric aggregations for the given year.

|GET /metric/yearly/+eventId+/+year+
|Returns a single yearly metric aggregation for the given year.

|===

=== Licensing and Copyright: ===

The project is licensed under the http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[Apache License, Version 2.0]

Commit message:

Upgraded spring-data-mongodb to RC1

readme.asciidoc, after:

== MongoDB Metrics Storage Engine ==

This project provides a storage engine based on MongoDB for timeseries event data stream. Metrics (+min+, +max+, +mean+, +sum+) are calculated periodically and stored separately from the event data stream.

=== Requirements: ===
* Apache Maven version 3
* Spring Data MongoDB 1.4.0.RC1
* MongoDB 2.2.x or later

=== Quickstart: ===

==== Installation: ====

Clone the repository using command
[source]
----
git clone git://github.com/aparnachaudhary/mongodb-metrics-store.git
----

==== Building: ====
image::https://travis-ci.org/aparnachaudhary/mongodb-metrics-store.png?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/aparnachaudhary/mongodb-metrics-store"]

image::https://coveralls.io/repos/aparnachaudhary/mongodb-metrics-store/badge.png?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://coveralls.io/r/aparnachaudhary/mongodb-metrics-store?branch=master"]
To build, issue this from the command line:
[source]
----
mvn clean install
----

==== Start Server: ====

To start the application using Jetty server from command line:
[source]
----
mvn clean install -pl core jetty:run
----

=== How it works: ===

==== Gauge Event ====

Event data stream is represented as +GaugeEvent+. Event can be represented in the form of following JSON structure. Gauge event has a +value+ field stored as +double+ and optionally context data can be stored in the form of map construct. Events are stored in their separate collections.
e.g. for event with name 'request'; a collection with name +request.event+ is created in the +eventstore+ database.

Events can be stored using the REST interface.

[source, js]
----
curl -i -X PUT http://localhost:8080/rest/event/ -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d 
'{"occuredOn":"2013-12-28T14:19:56Z","eventType":"request","value":11.0,"contextData":{"hostname":"localhost"}}'
----

JSON Structure of stored Gauge Event:

[source, js]
----
{
    "_id" : ObjectId("52bede0cc2e6f68c4ad8b7a6"),
    "_class" : "net.arunoday.metric.store.model.GaugeEvent",
    "occuredOn" : ISODate("2013-12-28T14:19:56Z"),
    "eventType" : "request",
    "value" : 11,
    "contextData" : {
        "hostname" : "localhost"
    }
}
----

==== Gauge Metric ====

Metrics (+min+, +max+, +mean+, +sum+) are calculated based on the event input. Metrics are calculated using hierarchial aggregations. 

Following aggregations are supported:

* Minute-wise
* Hourly
* Daily
* Monthly
* Yearly

For each event type; aggregation results are stored in separate collections in +metricstore+ database. e.g. +request.minute+ +request.hourly+ +request.daily+ +request.monthly+ and +request.yearly+
For generating minute wise aggregations, event data is used. But for hourly aggregations, instead of using event data stream; minute wise aggregations are used. Same approach is used for further aggregations of higher granularity.


image::HierarchialAggregation.jpg[]

JSON Structure Gauge Metric:

[source, js]
----
{
    "_id" : ISODate("2013-12-28T13:56:00Z"),
    "value" : {
        "total" : 7170,
        "count" : 12,
        "min" : 0,
        "max" : 603,
        "mean" : 597.5,
        "ts" : ISODate("2013-12-28T13:57:00Z")
    }
}
----

==== REST Support ====

Following REST operations are supported.

.Table Gauge Event REST Resources
[cols="2*", options="header"]
|===
|Resource| Description

|PUT /event/
|Stores gauge events and returns the event identifier.

|DELETE /event/+eventName+
|Deletes all events for the given event name.

|===


.Table Gauge Metric REST Resources
[cols="2*", options="header"]
|===
|Resource| Description

|GET /metric/minute/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+/+hour+/+minute+
|Returns a single minute wise metric aggregation for the given minute.

|GET /metric/minute/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+/+hour+
|Returns a collection of minute wise metric aggregations for the given hour.

|GET /metric/minute/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+
|Returns a collection of minute wise metric aggregations for the given date.

|GET /metric/minute/+eventId+/+year+/+month+
|Returns a collection of minute wise metric aggregations for the given month.

|GET /metric/hourly/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+/+hour+
|Returns a single hourly metric aggregation for the given hour.

|GET /metric/hourly/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+
|Returns a collection of hourly metric aggregations for the given date.

|GET /metric/hourly/+eventId+/+year+/+month+
|Returns a collection of hourly metric aggregations for the given month.

|GET /metric/daily/+eventId+/+year+/+month+/+day+
|Returns a single daily metric aggregation for the given date.

|GET /metric/daily/+eventId+/+year+/+month+
|Returns a collection of daily metric aggregations for the given month.

|GET /metric/daily/+eventId+/+year+
|Returns a collection of daily metric aggregations for the given year.

|GET /metric/monthly/+eventId+/+year+/+month+
|Returns a single monthly metric aggregation for the given month.

|GET /metric/monthly/+eventId+/+year+
|Returns a collection of monthly metric aggregations for the given year.

|GET /metric/yearly/+eventId+/+year+
|Returns a single yearly metric aggregation for the given year.

|===

=== Feedback: ===

Please feel free to raise bug reports or feature requests here https://github.com/aparnachaudhary/mongodb-metrics-store/issues?state=open[Issues].

=== Licensing and Copyright: ===

The project is licensed under the http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[Apache License, Version 2.0]
